docs/public-cloud/on-demand/connecting-instance.md, before:

---
description: Describes how to connect to your Lambda On-Demand Cloud instance using SSH or JupyterHub.
tags:
  - on-demand cloud
---

# Connecting to an instance

You can connect to your On-Demand Cloud (ODC) instances directly through SSH or
by using the preinstalled JupyterHub server.

## Setting up SSH access

Before you launch an instance, you must add an SSH key to your Lambda Cloud
account.  When you go through the process of launching an instance, you'll
be prompted to supply this SSH key so you can securely connect to the instance
after launching. You can import an existing key if you have one, or you can
generate a new one in the Lambda Cloud console.

### Adding an existing SSH key

If you have an existing SSH key, you can add it to your Lambda Cloud account and
use it to connect to your instances. Lambda Cloud accepts SSH keys in the
following formats:

-  OpenSSH, the format `ssh-keygen` uses by default when generating keys.
-  RFC4716, the format PuTTYgen uses when you save a public key.
-  PKCS8
-  PEM

??? note "View examples of each key type"

    OpenSSH keys look like:

    ```
    ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIK5HIO+OQSyFjz0clkvg+48YAihYMo5J7AGKiq+9Alg8 foo@bar
    ```

    RFC4716 keys begin with:

    ```
    ---- BEGIN SSH2 PUBLIC KEY ----
    ```

    PKCS8 keys begin with:

    ```
    -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
    ```

    PEM keys begin with:

    ```
    -----BEGIN RSA PUBLIC KEY-----
    ```

To add an existing SSH key:

1. Navigate to the [SSH keys page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/ssh-keys){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. Click **Add SSH Key**. A dialog appears.
1. In the dialog, in the text input box, paste your public SSH key.
1. Enter a name for your key, then click **Add SSH key**.

You can also add an SSH key through the Cloud API. For details, see
[Cloud API &gt; Add an existing SSH key to your account](../cloud-api.md#add-an-existing-ssh-key-to-your-account) in the Lambda
Cloud API docs.

### Generating a new SSH key

If you don't have an SSH key, you can generate one in the Lambda Cloud console.
Lambda Cloud generates SSH keys in PEM format.

To generate a new SSH key:

1. Navigate to the
    [SSH keys page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/ssh-keys){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. Click **Add SSH Key**. A dialog appears.
1. Click **Generate a new SSH key**.
1. Enter a name for your key, then click **Create**.

Depending on your browser settings, your key will automatically download to your
default download folder or you'll be prompted to select a download location.

You can also generate an SSH key through the Cloud API. For details, see
[Cloud API &gt; Generate a new SSH key pair](../cloud-api.md#generate-a-new-ssh-key-pair).

### Deleting an SSH key

To delete an SSH key from your Lambda Cloud account:

1. Navigate to the
    [SSH keys page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/ssh-keys){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. In your key's row, in the **Actions** column, click **Delete**. A dialog
    appears.
1. Click **Delete SSH key**.

You can also delete an SSH key through the Cloud API. For details, see the
following sections in the [Cloud API](../cloud-api.md) doc:

-  [List the SSH keys in your account](../cloud-api.md#list-the-ssh-keys-saved-in-your-account):
    Used to retrieve the SSH key ID.
-  [Delete an SSH key from your account](../cloud-api.md#delete-an-ssh-key-from-your-account):
    Used to perform the delete operation.

## Establishing an SSH connection

After you've added or generated an SSH key, you can establish a connection to
your instance. To establish an SSH connection:

1. Navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. In your instance's row, in the **IP Address** column, click your IP
    address to copy it.
1. On your local machine, in your terminal, run the following command.
    Substitute `<SSH-KEY-FILE-PATH>` with the path to your SSH key, and
substitute `<INSTANCE-IP>` with your instance's IP address:

    ```bash
    ssh -i '<SSH-KEY-FILE-PATH>' ubuntu@<INSTANCE-IP>
    ```

### Using an SSH tunnel

To use services on Lambda instances without opening additional ports in your
Lambda Cloud firewall, you can set up an SSH tunnel. An SSH tunnel forwards a
port on your local machine to a port on your ODC instance using an SSH
connection.

To set up an SSH tunnel, run the following command in your local terminal,
replacing the following placeholders:

-  Replace `<LOCAL-PORT>` with the port from which you want to access the
    service locally.
-  Replace `<REMOTE-PORT>` with the port on which the remote service is running.
-  Replace `<REMOTE-IP>` with the public IP of your Lambda instance.

```bash
ssh -L <LOCAL-PORT>:127.0.0.1:<REMOTE-PORT> ubuntu@<INSTANCE-IP>
```

You can now access the remote service from your local machine at
`localhost:<LOCAL-PORT>` or `127.0.0.1:<LOCAL-PORT>`.

### Using multiple SSH keys

When you create a new ODC instance, you add a single SSH key to the instance. If
needed, you can add more SSH keys by adding the relevant public keys to
`~/.ssh/authorized_keys` on your instance:

1. Establish an SSH connection to your instance.
1. Use `echo` to append your public key to `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`.
    Substitute `<PUBLIC-KEY>` with your public key, and make sure not to remove
the quotes around `<PUBLIC-KEY>`.

    ```bash
    echo '<PUBLIC-KEY>' >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
    ```

1. Verify that the key has been added:

    ```bash
    cat ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
    ```

You should now be able to log into your instance using the SSH key you just
added.

### Importing an SSH key from GitHub

To import an SSH key from a GitHub account and add it to your ODC instance:

1. Using your existing SSH key, establish an SSH connection to your instance.

    !!! note

        Alternatively, you can open a terminal inside your instance's
        JupyterHub. For details on accessing JupyterHub, see [Accessing
        JupyterHub and Jupyter notebooks](#accessing-jupyterhub) below.

1. Import the SSH key from the GitHub account. Replace `<USERNAME>` with
    the GitHub account's username:

    ```bash
    ssh-import-id gh:<USERNAME>
    ```

If the import is successful, you should see output similar to the following:

```text { .no-copy }
2023-08-04 15:03:52,622 INFO Authorized key ['256', 'SHA256:C6pl0q4evVYZWcyByVF69D6fdbdKa7F8ei8V2F/bTW0', 'cbrownstein-lambda@github/67649580', '(ED25519)']
2023-08-04 15:03:52,623 INFO [1] SSH keys [Authorized]
```

## Connecting to your instance's desktop environment {: #connecting-to-desktop-environment }

If you prefer working in a graphical desktop environment, you can set one up
on your ODC instance and then connect to it remotely. First, install and
configure your desktop environment and VNC server:

1. Establish an SSH connection to your instance, as described in the
    [Establishing an SSH connection](#establishing-an-ssh-connection) section
    above.

    !!! note

        Alternatively, you can open a terminal inside your instance's
        JupyterHub. For details on accessing JupyterHub, see [Accessing
        JupyterHub and Jupyter notebooks](#accessing-jupyterhub) below.

1. Install the TightVNC server and the desktop environment you want to use.
    These steps use GNOME for the desktop environment:

    ```bash
    sudo apt update &&
    sudo apt install -y tightvncserver gnome
    ```

1. Start the VNC server to create a VNC session. You're prompted to set a
    password.

    ```bash
    vncserver
    ```

1. After you set your password, open `~/.vnc/xstartup` for editing:

    ```bash
    nano ~/.vnc/xstartup
    ```

1.  Replace the contents of the file with the following lines and then save.
    If you installed a different desktop environment, substitute `startgnome`
    with the appropriate command for that environment:

    ```bash
    #!/bin/sh
    export XKL_XMODMAP_DISABLE=1
    export XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP=GNOME
    /etc/X11/Xsession
    xrdb $HOME/.Xresources
    startgnome &
    ```

1. Make the file executable:

    ```bash
    chmod +x ~/.vnc/xstartup
    ```

1. Restart your server:

    ```bash
    vncserver -kill :1 &&
    vncserver :1
    ```

Now that your VNC server is running, you can set up a secure connection to
your desktop environment:

1. On your local machine, navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console and copy your instance's IP address.
1. Open a terminal and create an SSH tunnel to your instance. Replace
    `<API-KEY-PATH>` with the local path to the SSH key you associated
    with your instance when you created the instance, `<USERNAME>` with your
    username, and `<INSTANCE-IP>` with your instance's IP address:

    ```bash
    ssh -i '<API-KEY-PATH>' -L 5901:localhost:5901 <USERNAME>@<INSTANCE-IP>
    ```

    !!! note

        Most VNC servers choose the port on which to server a display by adding
        the display number to 5900. Because you're connecting to display 1,
        this example connects on port 5901.

1. Install your preferred VNC client solution.
1. In your client, connect to `localhost:5091` and then enter your VNC
    server password. Your desktop environment should appear in a new window.

## Accessing JupyterHub and Jupyter notebooks {: id="accessing-jupyterhub" }

Lambda preinstalls JupyterHub on each instance by default. To open JupyterHub on
your instance:

1. Navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. In your instance's row, in the **Cloud IDE** column, click **Launch**.
    JupyterHub opens.

## Next steps

New to ODC? Check out the [ODC Overview](index.md).

Commit message:

Add "Managing your system environment" doc.

docs/public-cloud/on-demand/connecting-instance.md, after:

---
description: Describes how to connect to your Lambda On-Demand Cloud instance using SSH or JupyterHub.
tags:
  - on-demand cloud
---

# Connecting to an instance

You can connect to your On-Demand Cloud (ODC) instances directly through SSH or
by using the preinstalled JupyterHub server.

## Setting up SSH access

Before you launch an instance, you must add an SSH key to your Lambda Cloud
account.  When you go through the process of launching an instance, you'll
be prompted to supply this SSH key so you can securely connect to the instance
after launching. You can import an existing key if you have one, or you can
generate a new one in the Lambda Cloud console.

### Adding an existing SSH key

If you have an existing SSH key, you can add it to your Lambda Cloud account and
use it to connect to your instances. Lambda Cloud accepts SSH keys in the
following formats:

-  OpenSSH, the format `ssh-keygen` uses by default when generating keys.
-  RFC4716, the format PuTTYgen uses when you save a public key.
-  PKCS8
-  PEM

??? note "View examples of each key type"

    OpenSSH keys look like:

    ```
    ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIK5HIO+OQSyFjz0clkvg+48YAihYMo5J7AGKiq+9Alg8 foo@bar
    ```

    RFC4716 keys begin with:

    ```
    ---- BEGIN SSH2 PUBLIC KEY ----
    ```

    PKCS8 keys begin with:

    ```
    -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
    ```

    PEM keys begin with:

    ```
    -----BEGIN RSA PUBLIC KEY-----
    ```

To add an existing SSH key:

1. Navigate to the [SSH keys page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/ssh-keys){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. Click **Add SSH Key**. A dialog appears.
1. In the dialog, in the text input box, paste your public SSH key.
1. Enter a name for your key, then click **Add SSH key**.

You can also add an SSH key through the Cloud API. For details, see
[Cloud API &gt; Add an existing SSH key to your account](../cloud-api.md#add-an-existing-ssh-key-to-your-account) in the Lambda
Cloud API docs.

### Generating a new SSH key

If you don't have an SSH key, you can generate one in the Lambda Cloud console.
Lambda Cloud generates SSH keys in PEM format.

To generate a new SSH key:

1. Navigate to the
    [SSH keys page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/ssh-keys){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. Click **Add SSH Key**. A dialog appears.
1. Click **Generate a new SSH key**.
1. Enter a name for your key, then click **Create**.

Depending on your browser settings, your key will automatically download to your
default download folder or you'll be prompted to select a download location.

You can also generate an SSH key through the Cloud API. For details, see
[Cloud API &gt; Generate a new SSH key pair](../cloud-api.md#generate-a-new-ssh-key-pair).

### Deleting an SSH key

To delete an SSH key from your Lambda Cloud account:

1. Navigate to the
    [SSH keys page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/ssh-keys){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. In your key's row, in the **Actions** column, click **Delete**. A dialog
    appears.
1. Click **Delete SSH key**.

You can also delete an SSH key through the Cloud API. For details, see the
following sections in the [Cloud API](../cloud-api.md) doc:

-  [List the SSH keys in your account](../cloud-api.md#list-the-ssh-keys-saved-in-your-account):
    Used to retrieve the SSH key ID.
-  [Delete an SSH key from your account](../cloud-api.md#delete-an-ssh-key-from-your-account):
    Used to perform the delete operation.

## Establishing an SSH connection

After you've added or generated an SSH key, you can establish a connection to
your instance. To establish an SSH connection:

1. Navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. In your instance's row, in the **IP Address** column, click your IP
    address to copy it.
1. On your local machine, in your terminal, run the following command.
    Substitute `<SSH-KEY-FILE-PATH>` with the path to your SSH key, and
substitute `<INSTANCE-IP>` with your instance's IP address:

    ```bash
    ssh -i '<SSH-KEY-FILE-PATH>' ubuntu@<INSTANCE-IP>
    ```

### Using an SSH tunnel

To use services on Lambda instances without opening additional ports in your
Lambda Cloud firewall, you can set up an SSH tunnel. An SSH tunnel forwards a
port on your local machine to a port on your ODC instance using an SSH
connection.

To set up an SSH tunnel, run the following command in your local terminal,
replacing the following placeholders:

-  Replace `<LOCAL-PORT>` with the port from which you want to access the
    service locally.
-  Replace `<REMOTE-PORT>` with the port on which the remote service is running.
-  Replace `<REMOTE-IP>` with the public IP of your Lambda instance.

```bash
ssh -L <LOCAL-PORT>:127.0.0.1:<REMOTE-PORT> ubuntu@<INSTANCE-IP>
```

You can now access the remote service from your local machine at
`localhost:<LOCAL-PORT>` or `127.0.0.1:<LOCAL-PORT>`.

### Using multiple SSH keys

When you create a new ODC instance, you add a single SSH key to the instance. If
needed, you can add more SSH keys by adding the relevant public keys to
`~/.ssh/authorized_keys` on your instance:

1. Establish an SSH connection to your instance.
1. Use `echo` to append your public key to `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`.
    Substitute `<PUBLIC-KEY>` with your public key, and make sure not to remove
the quotes around `<PUBLIC-KEY>`.

    ```bash
    echo '<PUBLIC-KEY>' >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
    ```

1. Verify that the key has been added:

    ```bash
    cat ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
    ```

You should now be able to log into your instance using the SSH key you just
added.

### Importing an SSH key from GitHub

To import an SSH key from a GitHub account and add it to your ODC instance:

1. Using your existing SSH key, establish an SSH connection to your instance.

    !!! note

        Alternatively, you can open a terminal inside your instance's
        JupyterHub. For details on accessing JupyterHub, see [Accessing
        JupyterHub and Jupyter notebooks](#accessing-jupyterhub) below.

1. Import the SSH key from the GitHub account. Replace `<USERNAME>` with
    the GitHub account's username:

    ```bash
    ssh-import-id gh:<USERNAME>
    ```

If the import is successful, you should see output similar to the following:

```text { .no-copy }
2023-08-04 15:03:52,622 INFO Authorized key ['256', 'SHA256:C6pl0q4evVYZWcyByVF69D6fdbdKa7F8ei8V2F/bTW0', 'cbrownstein-lambda@github/67649580', '(ED25519)']
2023-08-04 15:03:52,623 INFO [1] SSH keys [Authorized]
```

## Connecting to your instance's desktop environment {: #connecting-to-desktop-environment }

If you prefer working in a graphical desktop environment, you can set one up
on your ODC instance and then connect to it remotely. First, install and
configure your desktop environment and VNC server:

1. Establish an SSH connection to your instance, as described in the
    [Establishing an SSH connection](#establishing-an-ssh-connection) section
    above.

    !!! note

        Alternatively, you can open a terminal inside your instance's
        JupyterHub. For details on accessing JupyterHub, see [Accessing
        JupyterHub and Jupyter notebooks](#accessing-jupyterhub) below.

1. Install the TightVNC server and the desktop environment you want to use.
    These steps use GNOME for the desktop environment:

    ```bash
    sudo apt update &&
    sudo apt install -y tightvncserver gnome
    ```

1. Start the VNC server to create a VNC session. You're prompted to set a
    password.

    ```bash
    vncserver
    ```

1. After you set your password, open `~/.vnc/xstartup` for editing:

    ```bash
    nano ~/.vnc/xstartup
    ```

1.  Replace the contents of the file with the following lines and then save.
    If you installed a different desktop environment, substitute `startgnome`
    with the appropriate command for that environment:

    ```bash
    #!/bin/sh
    export XKL_XMODMAP_DISABLE=1
    export XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP=GNOME
    /etc/X11/Xsession
    xrdb $HOME/.Xresources
    startgnome &
    ```

1. Make the file executable:

    ```bash
    chmod +x ~/.vnc/xstartup
    ```

1. Restart your server:

    ```bash
    vncserver -kill :1 &&
    vncserver :1
    ```

Now that your VNC server is running, you can set up a secure connection to
your desktop environment:

1. On your local machine, navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console and copy your instance's IP address.
1. Open a terminal and create an SSH tunnel to your instance. Replace
    `<API-KEY-PATH>` with the local path to the SSH key you associated
    with your instance when you created the instance, `<USERNAME>` with your
    username, and `<INSTANCE-IP>` with your instance's IP address:

    ```bash
    ssh -i '<API-KEY-PATH>' -L 5901:localhost:5901 <USERNAME>@<INSTANCE-IP>
    ```

    !!! note

        Most VNC servers choose the port on which to server a display by adding
        the display number to 5900. Because you're connecting to display 1,
        this example connects on port 5901.

1. Install your preferred VNC client solution.
1. In your client, connect to `localhost:5091` and then enter your VNC
    server password. Your desktop environment should appear in a new window.

## Accessing JupyterHub and Jupyter notebooks {: id="accessing-jupyterhub" }

Lambda preinstalls JupyterHub on each instance by default. To open JupyterHub on
your instance:

1. Navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){: target="_blank" .external }
    in the Lambda Cloud console.
1. In your instance's row, in the **Cloud IDE** column, click **Launch**.
    JupyterHub opens.

## Next steps

-  New to ODC? Check out the [ODC Overview](index.md).
-  For guidance on managing your ODC environment, see
    [Managing your system environment](../managing-system-environment.md).
