docs/public-cloud/on-demand/managing-system-environment.md, before:

---
description: Provides guidance around managing your Linux system environment on Lambda On-Demand Cloud instances.
tags:
  - on-demand cloud
---

# Managing your system environment

This document provides general guidance for managing your On-Demand Cloud (ODC)
instance's system environment.

## Isolating environments on your instance

You can use virtual environments to isolate different jobs or experiments from
each other on the same machine. This section details a few ways you can create
virtual environments on your ODC instance.

!!! tip

    Because they centralize large parts of your working environment in a
    small number of locations, virtual environments can also help simplify
    the process of backing up and restoring your work.

### Isolating your environment using a Docker image

Your ODC instance has Docker and the NVIDIA Container Toolkit
installed by default. To create and run a Docker container on your instance:

1. In the Lambda Cloud console, navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){: target="_blank" .external }.
1. In the row for your instance, in the **Cloud IDE** column, click
    **Launch** to launch JupyterHub.
1. In JupyterHub, in the **Launcher** tab, click **Terminal** to open a new
    terminal.
1. In the JupyterHub terminal, add your user to the `docker` group:

    ```bash
    sudo adduser "$(id -un)" docker
    ```

1. Start a new shell session in your terminal to pick up the current state of
    your user groups:

    ```
    exec bash
    ```

1. Locate the Docker image for the container you want to create. Replace
    `<IMAGE>` with the URL to the image for the container you want to create,
    and replace `<COMMAND>` with the command you want to run in the container.

    ```bash
    docker run --gpus all -it <IMAGE> <COMMAND>
    ```

### Isolating your Python environment with `venv`

In standard Python, you can create an isolated virtual Python environment by
using the built-in `venv` module. To create and activate a Python virtual
environment using `venv`:

1. Navigate to the directory in which you'd like to store your virtual
    environment.
1. Create the environment, adding the `--system-site-packages` flag to pull
    in your instance's preinstalled Lambda Stack modules. Replace `<NAME>` with
    the name you want to give your virtual environment.

    ```bash
    python -m venv --system-site-packages <NAME>
    ```

1. Activate your environment. Replace `<NAME>` with the name you defined in
    the previous step:

    ```bash
    source <NAME>/bin/activate
    ```

    !!! note

        This command assumes you're using a POSIX-compatible system, such as
        Linux, macOS, and WSL2. For details on activating your virtual
        environment in Windows PowerShell or other non-POSIX environments, see
        [`venv`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#how-venvs-work){: target="_blank" .external }
        in the Python docs.

You can exit your virtual environment by typing `exit()`. To return to the
environment, run step 3 from the directory you selected in step 1.

### Isolating your environment using conda

To install and configure conda:

1. Download the latest version of Miniconda3:

    ```bash
    curl -O https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ```

1. Run the Miniconda3 installer. Use the following settings as you work
    through the installer prompts:

    -  Install Miniconda3 in the default location.
    -  Allow the installer to initialize Miniconda3.

    ```bash
    sh Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ```

1. After the installer has finished, update your terminal environment with
    the changes the installer made to your `.bashrc` file:

    ```bash
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

1. Disable automatic activation of the conda base environment. This step
    ensures that your conda installation remains compatible with the Python
    `venv` module.

    ```bash
    conda config --set auto_activate_base false
    ```

Now that you've installed and configured conda, you can create and activate a
new conda environment:

1. Create a conda virtual environment using Miniconda3. Replace `<NAME>`
    with the name you want to give your virtual environment, and replace
    `<PACKAGES>` with the list of packages you want to install in your virtual
    environment:

    ```bash
    conda create -n <NAME> <PACKAGES>
    ```

    !!! note

        You can set additional options for your environment, such as your
        target training framework, while creating the environment. For example, the
        following command creates a PyTorchⓇ environment with CUDA 11.8:

        ```bash
        conda create -c pytorch -c nvidia -n pytorch+cuda_11-8 pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda=11.8
        ```

        For more information, see
        [`conda create`](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/commands/create.html){ target="_blank" .external }
        in the conda documentation.

1. Activate your environment. Replace <NAME> with the name you chose in the
    previous step.

    ```bash
    conda activate <NAME>
    ```

1. Test that your environment is working as expected:

    ```bash
    python -c 'import torch ; print("\nIs available: ", torch.cuda.is_available()) ; print("Pytorch CUDA Compiled version: ", torch._C._cuda_getCompiledVersion()) ; print("Pytorch version: ", torch.__version__) ; print("pytorch file: ", torch.__file__) ; num_of_gpus = torch.cuda.device_count(); print("Number of GPUs: ",num_of_gpus)'
    ```

    You should see output similar to the following:

    ```text { .no-copy }
    Is available:  True
    Pytorch CUDA Compiled version:  11080
    Pytorch version:  2.0.1
    pytorch file:  /home/ubuntu/miniconda3/envs/pytorch+cuda_11-8/lib/python3.11/site-packages/torch/__init__.py
    Number of GPUs:  1
    ```

## Creating and managing users

You can manage access and permissions on your instance by creating user
accounts. User accounts allow your team members to manage their own files,
datasets, and programs, as well as their own Python virtual environments,
conda virtual environments, and Docker containers.

To add new user accounts:

1. Establish an SSH connection to your instance or open a terminal in
    your instance's JupyterHub.
1. Add a new user. Replace `<USERNAME>` with the name the user will use to
    log into the system. This name will also be the name of the user's
    home directory&mdash;for example, `/home/<USERNAME>`.

    ```bash
    sudo adduser <USERNAME>
    ```

1. Set a password.
1. Supply the full name of your user.
1. Answer any additional prompts, or press ++enter++ to skip them.
1. If you want to give the user administrator-level permissions, add them to
    the `sudo` group. Replace `<USERNAME>` with your user's username:

    !!! warning

        Be conservative about granting adminstrator-level permissions.
        `sudo` users can create, modify, and delete system files and other
        users' files, as well as change other users' settings.

    ```bash
    sudo usermod -aG sudo <USERNAME>
    ```

You can verify that the user was added by listing the users in the system:

```bash
cat /etc/passwd
```

## Updating your operating system

**Don't try to upgrade to the latest Ubuntu release.** Doing so will
break JupyterHub, which has been configured and tested for the preinstalled
version of Python.

## Preventing your instance from suspending or sleeping

To prevent your system from going to sleep or suspending, establish an SSH
connection to your instance and run the following command:

```bash
sudo systemctl mask hibernate.target hybrid-sleep.target \
suspend-then-hibernate.target sleep.target suspend.target
```

## Next steps

New to ODC? Check out the [ODC Overview](index.md).

Commit message:

Add "Creating and managing instances" doc.

docs/public-cloud/on-demand/managing-system-environment.md, after:

---
description: Provides guidance around managing your Linux system environment on Lambda On-Demand Cloud instances.
tags:
  - on-demand cloud
---

# Managing your system environment

This document provides general guidance for managing your On-Demand Cloud (ODC)
instance's system environment.

## Isolating environments on your instance

You can use virtual environments to isolate different jobs or experiments from
each other on the same machine. This section details a few ways you can create
virtual environments on your ODC instance.

!!! tip

    Because they centralize large parts of your working environment in a
    small number of locations, virtual environments can also help simplify
    the process of backing up and restoring your work.

### Isolating your environment using a Docker image

Your ODC instance has Docker and the NVIDIA Container Toolkit
installed by default. To create and run a Docker container on your instance:

1. In the Lambda Cloud console, navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){: target="_blank" .external }.
1. In the row for your instance, in the **Cloud IDE** column, click
    **Launch** to launch JupyterHub.
1. In JupyterHub, in the **Launcher** tab, click **Terminal** to open a new
    terminal.
1. In the JupyterHub terminal, add your user to the `docker` group:

    ```bash
    sudo adduser "$(id -un)" docker
    ```

1. Start a new shell session in your terminal to pick up the current state of
    your user groups:

    ```
    exec bash
    ```

1. Locate the Docker image for the container you want to create. Replace
    `<IMAGE>` with the URL to the image for the container you want to create,
    and replace `<COMMAND>` with the command you want to run in the container.

    ```bash
    docker run --gpus all -it <IMAGE> <COMMAND>
    ```

### Isolating your Python environment with `venv`

In standard Python, you can create an isolated virtual Python environment by
using the built-in `venv` module. To create and activate a Python virtual
environment using `venv`:

1. Navigate to the directory in which you'd like to store your virtual
    environment.
1. Create the environment, adding the `--system-site-packages` flag to pull
    in your instance's preinstalled Lambda Stack modules. Replace `<NAME>` with
    the name you want to give your virtual environment.

    ```bash
    python -m venv --system-site-packages <NAME>
    ```

1. Activate your environment. Replace `<NAME>` with the name you defined in
    the previous step:

    ```bash
    source <NAME>/bin/activate
    ```

    !!! note

        This command assumes you're using a POSIX-compatible system, such as
        Linux, macOS, and WSL2. For details on activating your virtual
        environment in Windows PowerShell or other non-POSIX environments, see
        [`venv`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#how-venvs-work){: target="_blank" .external }
        in the Python docs.

You can exit your virtual environment by typing `exit()`. To return to the
environment, run step 3 from the directory you selected in step 1.

### Isolating your environment using conda

To install and configure conda:

1. Download the latest version of Miniconda3:

    ```bash
    curl -O https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ```

1. Run the Miniconda3 installer. Use the following settings as you work
    through the installer prompts:

    -  Install Miniconda3 in the default location.
    -  Allow the installer to initialize Miniconda3.

    ```bash
    sh Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ```

1. After the installer has finished, update your terminal environment with
    the changes the installer made to your `.bashrc` file:

    ```bash
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

1. Disable automatic activation of the conda base environment. This step
    ensures that your conda installation remains compatible with the Python
    `venv` module.

    ```bash
    conda config --set auto_activate_base false
    ```

Now that you've installed and configured conda, you can create and activate a
new conda environment:

1. Create a conda virtual environment using Miniconda3. Replace `<NAME>`
    with the name you want to give your virtual environment, and replace
    `<PACKAGES>` with the list of packages you want to install in your virtual
    environment:

    ```bash
    conda create -n <NAME> <PACKAGES>
    ```

    !!! note

        You can set additional options for your environment, such as your
        target training framework, while creating the environment. For example, the
        following command creates a PyTorchⓇ environment with CUDA 11.8:

        ```bash
        conda create -c pytorch -c nvidia -n pytorch+cuda_11-8 pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda=11.8
        ```

        For more information, see
        [`conda create`](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/commands/create.html){ target="_blank" .external }
        in the conda documentation.

1. Activate your environment. Replace <NAME> with the name you chose in the
    previous step.

    ```bash
    conda activate <NAME>
    ```

1. Test that your environment is working as expected:

    ```bash
    python -c 'import torch ; print("\nIs available: ", torch.cuda.is_available()) ; print("Pytorch CUDA Compiled version: ", torch._C._cuda_getCompiledVersion()) ; print("Pytorch version: ", torch.__version__) ; print("pytorch file: ", torch.__file__) ; num_of_gpus = torch.cuda.device_count(); print("Number of GPUs: ",num_of_gpus)'
    ```

    You should see output similar to the following:

    ```text { .no-copy }
    Is available:  True
    Pytorch CUDA Compiled version:  11080
    Pytorch version:  2.0.1
    pytorch file:  /home/ubuntu/miniconda3/envs/pytorch+cuda_11-8/lib/python3.11/site-packages/torch/__init__.py
    Number of GPUs:  1
    ```

## Creating and managing users

You can manage access and permissions on your instance by creating user
accounts. User accounts allow your team members to manage their own files,
datasets, and programs, as well as their own Python virtual environments,
conda virtual environments, and Docker containers.

To add new user accounts:

1. Establish an SSH connection to your instance or open a terminal in
    your instance's JupyterHub.
1. Add a new user. Replace `<USERNAME>` with the name the user will use to
    log into the system. This name will also be the name of the user's
    home directory&mdash;for example, `/home/<USERNAME>`.

    ```bash
    sudo adduser <USERNAME>
    ```

1. Set a password.
1. Supply the full name of your user.
1. Answer any additional prompts, or press ++enter++ to skip them.
1. If you want to give the user administrator-level permissions, add them to
    the `sudo` group. Replace `<USERNAME>` with your user's username:

    !!! warning

        Be conservative about granting adminstrator-level permissions.
        `sudo` users can create, modify, and delete system files and other
        users' files, as well as change other users' settings.

    ```bash
    sudo usermod -aG sudo <USERNAME>
    ```

You can verify that the user was added by listing the users in the system:

```bash
cat /etc/passwd
```

## Updating your operating system

**Don't try to upgrade to the latest Ubuntu release.** Doing so will
break JupyterHub, which has been configured and tested for the preinstalled
version of Python.

## Preventing your instance from suspending or sleeping

To prevent your system from going to sleep or suspending, establish an SSH
connection to your instance and run the following command:

```bash
sudo systemctl mask hibernate.target hybrid-sleep.target \
suspend-then-hibernate.target sleep.target suspend.target
```

## Next steps

-  New to ODC? Check out the [ODC Overview](index.md).
-  For information on managing your ODC virtual machine instances,
    see [Creating and managing instances](creating-managing-instances.md).
