docs/public-cloud/on-demand/running-benchmark-gh200.md, before:

# Running a PyTorch^&reg;^-based benchmark on an NVIDIA GH200 instance

This tutorial describes how to run an NGC-based benchmark on an On-Demand Cloud
(ODC) instance backed with the NVIDIA GH200 Grace Hopper Superchip. The tutorial
also outlines how to run the benchmark on other ODC instance types to compare
performance. The benchmark uses a variety of PyTorch^&reg;^ examples from
NVIDIA's
[Deep Learning Examples](https://github.com/NVIDIA/DeepLearningExamples/tree/master/PyTorch){ target="_blank" .external }
repository.

## Prerequisites

To run this tutorial successfully, you'll need the following:

-  A GitHub account and some familiarity with a Git-based workflow.
-  The following tools and libraries installed on the machine or instance
    you plan to benchmark. These tools and libraries are installed by default
    on your ODC instances:
    -  NVIDIA driver
    -  Docker
    -  Git
    -  nvidia-container-toolkit
    -  Python

## Setting up your environment

### Launch your GH200 instance

Begin by launching a GH200 instance:

1. In the Lambda Cloud console, navigate to the
    [SSH keys page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/ssh-keys){ target="_blank" .external },
    click **Add SSH Key**, and then add or generate a SSH key.
1. Navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){ target="_blank" .external }
    and click **Launch Instance**.
1. Follow the steps in the instance launch wizard.
    -  _Instance type:_ Select **1x GH200 (96 GB)**.
    -  _Region:_ Select an available region.
    -  _Filesystem:_ Don't attach a filesystem.
    -  _SSH key:_ Use the key you created in step 1.

1. Click **Launch instance**.
1. Review the EULAs. If you agree to them, click **I agree to the above** to
    start launching your new instance. Instances can take up to five minutes to
    fully launch.

### Set the required environment variables

Next, set the environment variables you need to run the benchmark:

1. In the Lambda Cloud console, navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){ .external target="_blank"},
    find the row for your instance, and then click **Launch** in the
    **Cloud IDE** column. JupyterHub opens in a new window.
1. In JupyterHub's **Launcher** tab, under **Other**, click **Terminal** to
    open a new terminal.
1. Open your `.bashrc` file for editing:

    ```
    nano ~/.bashrc
    ```

1. At the bottom of the file, set the following environment variables.
    Replace `<GIT-USERNAME>` with your GitHub username and `<GIT-EMAIL>` with
    the email address associated with your GitHub account:

    !!! note

        If desired, you can update the value of `NAME_NGC` below to
        reflect the latest version of PyTorch^&reg;^. This tutorial isn't pinned
        to a specific version.

    ```
    export NAME_NGC=pytorch:24.10-py3
    export NAME_TYPE=ODC
    export NAME_DATASET=all
    export NAME_TASKS=all
    export NUM_GPU=1
    export NAME_GPU=GH200_96GB
    export NAME_RESULTS=gh200_benchmark_results
    export GIT_USERNAME=<GIT-USERNAME>
    export GIT_EMAIL=<GIT-EMAIL>
    ```

1. Save and exit.
1. Update your environment with your new environment variables:

    ```bash
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

## Running the GH200 benchmark

### Run the benchmark

Now that you've set up your environment, you can run the benchmark on your GH200
instance:

1. In your web browser, navigate to the
    [lambdal/deeplearning-benchmark](https://github.com/lambdal/deeplearning-benchmark){ target="_blank" .external }
    repository on GitHub and then fork the repository. By using your own fork
    instead of the original repository, you'll be able to push your benchmark
    results to a single location.
1. In your ODC instance's JupyterHub terminal, pull the NGC PyTorch^&reg;^
    Docker image:

    ```bash
    sudo docker pull nvcr.io/nvidia/${NAME_NGC} 2>&1
    ```

1. Clone the **LambdaLabsML/DeepLearningExamples** repository, check out
    its **lambda/benchmark** branch, and then clone your forked repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/LambdaLabsML/DeepLearningExamples.git &&
    cd DeepLearningExamples &&
    git checkout lambda/benchmark &&
    cd .. &&
    git clone https://github.com/${GIT_USERNAME}/deeplearning-benchmark.git
    ```

1. Navigate to the `pytorch` directory, and then download and prepare the
    dataset that the benchmark will use. This step might take up to 20 minutes
    to complete:

    ```bash
    cd deeplearning-benchmark/pytorch &&
    mkdir ~/data &&
    sudo docker run --gpus all --rm --shm-size=256g \
    -v ~/DeepLearningExamples/PyTorch:/workspace/benchmark \
    -v ~/data:/data \
    -v $(pwd)"/scripts":/scripts \
    nvcr.io/nvidia/${NAME_NGC} \
    /bin/bash -c "cp -r /scripts/* /workspace; ./run_prepare.sh ${NAME_DATASET}"
    ```

1. Create a PyTorch^&reg;^ configuration file for the benchmark:

    ```bash
    cp scripts/config_v2/config_pytorch_${NUM_GPU}x${NAME_GPU}_v2.sh scripts/config_v2/config_pytorch_${NAME_TYPE}_${NUM_GPU}x${NAME_GPU}_$(hostname)_v2.sh
    ```

1. Create a new directory named `gh200_benchmark_results` to store the
    benchmark results in:

    ```bash
    mkdir -p ${NAME_RESULTS}
    ```

1. Run the benchmark:

    ```bash
    sudo docker run --rm --shm-size=1024g \
    --gpus all \
    -v ~/DeepLearningExamples/PyTorch:/workspace/benchmark \
    -v ~/data:/data \
    -v $(pwd)"/scripts":/scripts \
    -v $(pwd)/${NAME_RESULTS}:/results \
    nvcr.io/nvidia/${NAME_NGC} \
    /bin/bash -c "cp -r /scripts/* /workspace; ./run_benchmark.sh ${NAME_TYPE}_${NUM_GPU}x${NAME_GPU}_$(hostname)_v2 ${NAME_TASKS} 3000"
    ```

### Compile the results to CSV

When the benchmark completes, it publishes the results to a subdirectory of your
`results_v2` directory. You can compile a summary of these results to CSV by
running the following scripts from the `pytorch` folder:

```bash
python scripts/compile_results_pytorch_v2.py --path ${NAME_RESULTS} --precision fp32 &&
python scripts/compile_results_pytorch_v2.py --path ${NAME_RESULTS} --precision fp16
```

The resulting CSV files appear in the `pytorch` directory:

```text { .no-copy }
pytorch-train-throughput-v2-fp16.csv
pytorch-train-throughput-v2-fp32.csv
```

### Push the results to GitHub

Finally, push the results to your GitHub repository:

1. In your web browser, log into GitHub and
    [create a new fine-grained personal access token](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new){ target="_blank" .external }
    with the following configuration. Make sure to copy the token and paste it
    somewhere safe for future use:
    -  _Token name:_ GH200 benchmarking
    -  _Respository access:_ Select **Only select repositories**, and
        then select your **deeplearning-benchmark** fork from the dropdown.
    -  _Permissions:_ Under **Repository permissions**, set **Contents**
        to **Read and write**.

1. In your terminal in JupyterHub, set an environment variable for your
    GitHub token. Replace `<GIT-TOKEN>` with the personal access token you
    created in step 1:

    ```bash
    export GIT_TOKEN=<GIT-TOKEN>
    ```

1. Configure your Git credentials:

    ```bash
    git config --global user.name "${GIT_USERNAME}" &&
    git config --global user.email "${GIT_EMAIL}"
    ```

1. Navigate to the `pytorch` directory, and then fetch the latest changes
    from the repo's `master` branch and merge them into your current branch:

    ```bash
    cd ~/deeplearning-benchmark/pytorch &&
    git pull origin master
    ```

1. Navigate to the pytorch directory and then commit your results:

    ```bash
    git add scripts/config_v2 &&
    git add ${NAME_RESULTS} &&
    git add pytorch-train-throughput-v2-fp16.csv &&
    git add pytorch-train-throughput-v2-fp32.csv &&
    git commit -m "Update from $(hostname)"
    ```

1. Set `origin` to your forked repository:

    ```bash
    git remote set-url origin https://${GIT_USERNAME}:${GIT_TOKEN}@github.com/${GIT_USERNAME}/deeplearning-benchmark.git
    ```

1. Push the results to your forked repository.

    ```bash
    git push origin master
    ```

That's it! To see your benchmarks, navigate to the `pytorch` folder in your
forked repo on GitHub, and then click on one of the two CSV files. GitHub
renders your CSV files in an easy-to-scan tablular format by default.

## Running the benchmark on other instance types

Without other data to compare it to, your GH200 benchmark data is of limited
use. You can run the benchmark on other ODC instance types by modifying the
instructions in the [Setting up your environment](#setting-up-your-environment)
section above. Make the following changes:

-  When launching your instance, select the instance type you want to
    benchmark.
-  When setting your environment variables, set `NAME_GPU` to the
    appropriate string for your GPU and `NUM_GPU` to the number of GPUs
    attached to the instance. The naming pattern for `NAME_GPU` is as follows:

    ```text
    <GPU-TYPE>_<GPU-VRAM>GB_<GPU-CONNECTION-TYPE>
    ```

    For example, if you're planning to benchmark an 8xH100 80GB SXM instance,
    you should set NAME_GPU and NUM_GPU as follows:

    ```bash
    export NAME_GPU=H100_80GB_SXM
    export NUM_GPU=8
    ```

    !!! warning "Important"

        If the instance type doesn't explicitly state a GPU connection type,
        omit `_<GPU-CONNECTION-TYPE>` from the naming pattern.

After you've launched and set up your instance, you can run the instructions in
the [Running the GH200 benchmark](#running-the-gh200-benchmark) section as
normal. As before, you can compare results by clicking on each of the CSV file
you generated.

## Cleaning up

When you're done with your instances, terminate them to avoid incurring
unnecessary costs:

1. In the Lambda Cloud console, navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){ target="_blank" .external }.
1. Select the checkboxes of the instances you want to delete.
1. Click **Terminate**. A dialog appears.
1. Follow the instructions and then click **Terminate instances** to
    terminate your instances.

## Next steps

-  To learn how to use vLLM to serve models from a GH200 instance, see
    [Serving Llama 3.1 8B using vLLM on an NVIDIA GH200 instance](serving-llama-31-vllm-gh200.md).
-  To learn how to use Hugging Face's Diffusers and Transformers libraries on
    a GH200 instance, see
    [Running Hugging Face Transformers and Diffusers on an NVIDIA GH200 instance](running-huggingface-diffusers-transformers-gh200.md).
-  For more tips and tutorials, see our
    [Education](../../education/index.md) section.

Commit message:

Add tags and metadata to GH200 launch docs.

docs/public-cloud/on-demand/running-benchmark-gh200.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to benchmark a Lambda On-Demand Cloud NVIDIA GH200 instance.
tags:
  - on-demand cloud
---

# Running a PyTorch^&reg;^-based benchmark on an NVIDIA GH200 instance

This tutorial describes how to run an NGC-based benchmark on an On-Demand Cloud
(ODC) instance backed with the NVIDIA GH200 Grace Hopper Superchip. The tutorial
also outlines how to run the benchmark on other ODC instance types to compare
performance. The benchmark uses a variety of PyTorch^&reg;^ examples from
NVIDIA's
[Deep Learning Examples](https://github.com/NVIDIA/DeepLearningExamples/tree/master/PyTorch){ target="_blank" .external }
repository.

## Prerequisites

To run this tutorial successfully, you'll need the following:

-  A GitHub account and some familiarity with a Git-based workflow.
-  The following tools and libraries installed on the machine or instance
    you plan to benchmark. These tools and libraries are installed by default
    on your ODC instances:
    -  NVIDIA driver
    -  Docker
    -  Git
    -  nvidia-container-toolkit
    -  Python

## Setting up your environment

### Launch your GH200 instance

Begin by launching a GH200 instance:

1. In the Lambda Cloud console, navigate to the
    [SSH keys page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/ssh-keys){ target="_blank" .external },
    click **Add SSH Key**, and then add or generate a SSH key.
1. Navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){ target="_blank" .external }
    and click **Launch Instance**.
1. Follow the steps in the instance launch wizard.
    -  _Instance type:_ Select **1x GH200 (96 GB)**.
    -  _Region:_ Select an available region.
    -  _Filesystem:_ Don't attach a filesystem.
    -  _SSH key:_ Use the key you created in step 1.

1. Click **Launch instance**.
1. Review the EULAs. If you agree to them, click **I agree to the above** to
    start launching your new instance. Instances can take up to five minutes to
    fully launch.

### Set the required environment variables

Next, set the environment variables you need to run the benchmark:

1. In the Lambda Cloud console, navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){ .external target="_blank"},
    find the row for your instance, and then click **Launch** in the
    **Cloud IDE** column. JupyterHub opens in a new window.
1. In JupyterHub's **Launcher** tab, under **Other**, click **Terminal** to
    open a new terminal.
1. Open your `.bashrc` file for editing:

    ```
    nano ~/.bashrc
    ```

1. At the bottom of the file, set the following environment variables.
    Replace `<GIT-USERNAME>` with your GitHub username and `<GIT-EMAIL>` with
    the email address associated with your GitHub account:

    !!! note

        If desired, you can update the value of `NAME_NGC` below to
        reflect the latest version of PyTorch^&reg;^. This tutorial isn't pinned
        to a specific version.

    ```
    export NAME_NGC=pytorch:24.10-py3
    export NAME_TYPE=ODC
    export NAME_DATASET=all
    export NAME_TASKS=all
    export NUM_GPU=1
    export NAME_GPU=GH200_96GB
    export NAME_RESULTS=gh200_benchmark_results
    export GIT_USERNAME=<GIT-USERNAME>
    export GIT_EMAIL=<GIT-EMAIL>
    ```

1. Save and exit.
1. Update your environment with your new environment variables:

    ```bash
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

## Running the GH200 benchmark

### Run the benchmark

Now that you've set up your environment, you can run the benchmark on your GH200
instance:

1. In your web browser, navigate to the
    [lambdal/deeplearning-benchmark](https://github.com/lambdal/deeplearning-benchmark){ target="_blank" .external }
    repository on GitHub and then fork the repository. By using your own fork
    instead of the original repository, you'll be able to push your benchmark
    results to a single location.
1. In your ODC instance's JupyterHub terminal, pull the NGC PyTorch^&reg;^
    Docker image:

    ```bash
    sudo docker pull nvcr.io/nvidia/${NAME_NGC} 2>&1
    ```

1. Clone the **LambdaLabsML/DeepLearningExamples** repository, check out
    its **lambda/benchmark** branch, and then clone your forked repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/LambdaLabsML/DeepLearningExamples.git &&
    cd DeepLearningExamples &&
    git checkout lambda/benchmark &&
    cd .. &&
    git clone https://github.com/${GIT_USERNAME}/deeplearning-benchmark.git
    ```

1. Navigate to the `pytorch` directory, and then download and prepare the
    dataset that the benchmark will use. This step might take up to 20 minutes
    to complete:

    ```bash
    cd deeplearning-benchmark/pytorch &&
    mkdir ~/data &&
    sudo docker run --gpus all --rm --shm-size=256g \
    -v ~/DeepLearningExamples/PyTorch:/workspace/benchmark \
    -v ~/data:/data \
    -v $(pwd)"/scripts":/scripts \
    nvcr.io/nvidia/${NAME_NGC} \
    /bin/bash -c "cp -r /scripts/* /workspace; ./run_prepare.sh ${NAME_DATASET}"
    ```

1. Create a PyTorch^&reg;^ configuration file for the benchmark:

    ```bash
    cp scripts/config_v2/config_pytorch_${NUM_GPU}x${NAME_GPU}_v2.sh scripts/config_v2/config_pytorch_${NAME_TYPE}_${NUM_GPU}x${NAME_GPU}_$(hostname)_v2.sh
    ```

1. Create a new directory named `gh200_benchmark_results` to store the
    benchmark results in:

    ```bash
    mkdir -p ${NAME_RESULTS}
    ```

1. Run the benchmark:

    ```bash
    sudo docker run --rm --shm-size=1024g \
    --gpus all \
    -v ~/DeepLearningExamples/PyTorch:/workspace/benchmark \
    -v ~/data:/data \
    -v $(pwd)"/scripts":/scripts \
    -v $(pwd)/${NAME_RESULTS}:/results \
    nvcr.io/nvidia/${NAME_NGC} \
    /bin/bash -c "cp -r /scripts/* /workspace; ./run_benchmark.sh ${NAME_TYPE}_${NUM_GPU}x${NAME_GPU}_$(hostname)_v2 ${NAME_TASKS} 3000"
    ```

### Compile the results to CSV

When the benchmark completes, it publishes the results to a subdirectory of your
`results_v2` directory. You can compile a summary of these results to CSV by
running the following scripts from the `pytorch` folder:

```bash
python scripts/compile_results_pytorch_v2.py --path ${NAME_RESULTS} --precision fp32 &&
python scripts/compile_results_pytorch_v2.py --path ${NAME_RESULTS} --precision fp16
```

The resulting CSV files appear in the `pytorch` directory:

```text { .no-copy }
pytorch-train-throughput-v2-fp16.csv
pytorch-train-throughput-v2-fp32.csv
```

### Push the results to GitHub

Finally, push the results to your GitHub repository:

1. In your web browser, log into GitHub and
    [create a new fine-grained personal access token](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new){ target="_blank" .external }
    with the following configuration. Make sure to copy the token and paste it
    somewhere safe for future use:
    -  _Token name:_ GH200 benchmarking
    -  _Respository access:_ Select **Only select repositories**, and
        then select your **deeplearning-benchmark** fork from the dropdown.
    -  _Permissions:_ Under **Repository permissions**, set **Contents**
        to **Read and write**.

1. In your terminal in JupyterHub, set an environment variable for your
    GitHub token. Replace `<GIT-TOKEN>` with the personal access token you
    created in step 1:

    ```bash
    export GIT_TOKEN=<GIT-TOKEN>
    ```

1. Configure your Git credentials:

    ```bash
    git config --global user.name "${GIT_USERNAME}" &&
    git config --global user.email "${GIT_EMAIL}"
    ```

1. Navigate to the `pytorch` directory, and then fetch the latest changes
    from the repo's `master` branch and merge them into your current branch:

    ```bash
    cd ~/deeplearning-benchmark/pytorch &&
    git pull origin master
    ```

1. Navigate to the pytorch directory and then commit your results:

    ```bash
    git add scripts/config_v2 &&
    git add ${NAME_RESULTS} &&
    git add pytorch-train-throughput-v2-fp16.csv &&
    git add pytorch-train-throughput-v2-fp32.csv &&
    git commit -m "Update from $(hostname)"
    ```

1. Set `origin` to your forked repository:

    ```bash
    git remote set-url origin https://${GIT_USERNAME}:${GIT_TOKEN}@github.com/${GIT_USERNAME}/deeplearning-benchmark.git
    ```

1. Push the results to your forked repository.

    ```bash
    git push origin master
    ```

That's it! To see your benchmarks, navigate to the `pytorch` folder in your
forked repo on GitHub, and then click on one of the two CSV files. GitHub
renders your CSV files in an easy-to-scan tablular format by default.

## Running the benchmark on other instance types

Without other data to compare it to, your GH200 benchmark data is of limited
use. You can run the benchmark on other ODC instance types by modifying the
instructions in the [Setting up your environment](#setting-up-your-environment)
section above. Make the following changes:

-  When launching your instance, select the instance type you want to
    benchmark.
-  When setting your environment variables, set `NAME_GPU` to the
    appropriate string for your GPU and `NUM_GPU` to the number of GPUs
    attached to the instance. The naming pattern for `NAME_GPU` is as follows:

    ```text
    <GPU-TYPE>_<GPU-VRAM>GB_<GPU-CONNECTION-TYPE>
    ```

    For example, if you're planning to benchmark an 8xH100 80GB SXM instance,
    you should set NAME_GPU and NUM_GPU as follows:

    ```bash
    export NAME_GPU=H100_80GB_SXM
    export NUM_GPU=8
    ```

    !!! warning "Important"

        If the instance type doesn't explicitly state a GPU connection type,
        omit `_<GPU-CONNECTION-TYPE>` from the naming pattern.

After you've launched and set up your instance, you can run the instructions in
the [Running the GH200 benchmark](#running-the-gh200-benchmark) section as
normal. As before, you can compare results by clicking on each of the CSV file
you generated.

## Cleaning up

When you're done with your instances, terminate them to avoid incurring
unnecessary costs:

1. In the Lambda Cloud console, navigate to the
    [Instances page](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/instances){ target="_blank" .external }.
1. Select the checkboxes of the instances you want to delete.
1. Click **Terminate**. A dialog appears.
1. Follow the instructions and then click **Terminate instances** to
    terminate your instances.

## Next steps

-  To learn how to use vLLM to serve models from a GH200 instance, see
    [Serving Llama 3.1 8B using vLLM on an NVIDIA GH200 instance](serving-llama-31-vllm-gh200.md).
-  To learn how to use Hugging Face's Diffusers and Transformers libraries on
    a GH200 instance, see
    [Running Hugging Face Transformers and Diffusers on an NVIDIA GH200 instance](running-huggingface-diffusers-transformers-gh200.md).
-  For more tips and tutorials, see our
    [Education](../../education/index.md) section.
